Control objectives for information and related technologies (COBIT) is particularly effective for establishing a GRC program. COBIT takes a holistic approach to IT governance and emphasizes alignment with business objectives. COBIT is divided into domains and processes, each covering different aspects of IT governance, including risk management and information security. It strives to integrate governance into everyday IT processes in an effort to ensure that IT-related decisions always align with important business goals and support regulatory compliance needs. COBIT emphasizes the use of stringent policies, standards, and processes to shape and define IT governance practices. It also provides guidance regarding different metrics and maturity models designed to help measure the program's effectiveness, which, in turn, drives continual improvement.

More information regarding the COBIT Framework can be found at [https://www.isaca.org/resources/cobit](https://www.isaca.org/resources/cobit)

The COBIT framework includes specific processes for identifying, evaluating, and managing IT risks. For example, COBIT can help establish a risk management program that aligns with overall business risks and prioritizes cybersecurity threats based on their potential impact on business operations. Additionally, COBIT provides tools and resources to help organizations ensure that their cybersecurity practices comply with relevant laws, regulations, and standards. By implementing COBIT's governance and management objectives, organizations can create clear policies for information security, define roles and responsibilities, and establish audit and compliance checks.